the United States has tonight launched a
drone strike in the Iraqi Capital
Baghdad killing a senior leader of an
armed pro-iran group three people were
killed in the attack including a
commander of the group that us officials
say was behind recent attacks on us
bases in Iraq and Syria in a moment
we'll speak to our International editor
Jeremy Bowen in Israel but first oliran
is in Baghdad for us tonight and Alla
you try to get close to the scene of
this attack this evening what happened
well this was an attack at 9:30 in the
evening Sophie there were three audible
explosions we could hear them at our
hotel and this is a time when people are
out on the streets in Baghdad when cafes
and restaurants are open now we got to
the scene pretty quickly there was a
security presence already there of Iraqi
police and we tried to approach the
burnt out wreck to speak to people and
ask them about what they had seen and
heard and we were very very quickly
surrounded there was a lot of anger a
lot of hostility in the crowd uh people
telling us we were not welcome because
foreigners were responsible for what had
happened for the attack on the Iraqi
commander and therefore we as foreigners
were not welcome at the location now we
were not harmed we were able to pull
back to an area where even more security
forces were arriving and members of
Iraqi SWAT teams and then a crane came
in to take away the wreckage of the car
and the crowd actually started following
now there have been calls tonight from
uh Shia paramilitary leaders pro-iranian
militia leaders for their supporters to
come out on the streets to show their
anger there have been calls also for
retaliation specifically one militia
leader saying We Want Blood for Blood
now us Central Command has said this was
a necessary strike to protect American
lives and that they would not hesitate
to take further measures in the future
but we've already we've already had one
very angry response from the Iraqi
military saying this is a threat to
sovereignty and to Safety and Security
in the country and it's hard to see how
it can do other than increase the level
of tension here Allan with the very
latest there from Baghdad thank you well
let's go to our International editor
Jeremy Bowen who is in Jerusalem Jeremy
just put in context how significant this
escalation is
tonight well it's clearly a serious
escalation though the Americans are
saying this is really about stability in
sending a message to Teran it all
depends what happens when the inevitable
retaliation occurs and whether they do
get as all is said Blood for Blood and
whether that blood is American because
that will then uh prompt another
American response without doubt now the
whole region is a flame and here in
Jerusalem The American Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin has been meeting
uh Palestinian president mahmmed abas
and also the Israeli Prime Minister uh
Mr Netanyahu and he's been trying to
pull off Mr blink a diplomatic miracle
if you like to close the gap between
Israel's position on a ceasefire in
Gaza and the position held by Hamas now
as well as that there's concern about
what's happening north of here on the
border with Lebanon where there has been
an increasingly intense war going on
since October the 7th and Israel says
that if hisbah the pro Iranian group in
Lebanon doesn't pull back from the
border then it will take even more
action and I've been up right up to that
Frontier Israel's border with Lebanon
feels isolated and empty in Matula
Israel's most Northerly Community the
only residents left are mobilized Army
reservists here they're surrounded on
three sides by hisbah Iran powerful Ally
in Lebanon one of the men who didn't
want his face shown pointed to his
brother's positions mile and then to the
north is half a mile the border with
leanon and then in the east of us it is
half a mile definitely can can turn into
a big war and a big war with hisbah it's
not like Hamas the real army very
trained greatly equipped great
intelligence and they have a lot of
experience real experience in Syria
Israel released video of their attacks
and what they said were hisb positions
tens of thousands of civilians on either
side of the Border have been evacuated
the war there is
intensifying yeah more urgent for
Anthony blinkin is a ceasefire in Gaza
but prime minister Netanyahu doubled
down calling for total Victory and
dismissing the h Mass response to the US
ceasefire
proposal the US Secretary of State still
believes a deal is possible and at the
agq of the rivals of Hamas the
Palestinian Authority he repeated to
president Mahmud Abbas that America
wants a Palestinian state which Israel's
leader opposes and reminded Israelis
later that their suffering was no
justification for killing Palestinian
civilians that cannot be a license to
dehumanize
others the overwhelming majority of
people in Gaza had nothing to do with
the attacks of October 7th and the
families in Gaza whose survival depends
on deliveries of aid from Israel are
just like our
families their mothers and fathers Sons
and
Daughters Gaza is the key to stabilizing
the Middle East this is the occupied
Goan Heights another potential flash
point where the borders of Israel
Lebanon and Syria meet over on the
Syrian side you can see ruins from
previous Wars Anthony blinkin warns this
is the most dangerous moment for the
Middle East since
1973 without a ceasefire in Gaza the
risks that a wider war will intensify
remain very
real Israel has heavily reinforced its
northern Borderlands this is a former
Syrian base occupied by the Israelis
since 1967
inside the ruin the head of the Regional
Council a retired Colonel Was preparing
for the worst if
we go from here to where we going to hia
then they they bomb Us in hia then we go
to T Aviv then Bas in in t AV people
prefer to move by night on the most
exposed roads in Northern Israel in
places shielded by blast prooof concrete
walls don't think of this war on the
Lebanese border as a side sh to Gaza it
could become even
worse this is the most dangerous the
most unstable Frontier in the Middle
East at the moment what started as a
low-level War back in October has been
intensifying but all sides know how much
worse it could get not just causing
great destruction in Israel and in
Lebanon but it's also got the capacity
to ignite the region
the fate of the whole Middle East not
just Israel's empty evacuated Northern
towns depends on breaking through the
shock and hatred of War so far the
diplomats are fighting a losing battle
Jeremy bow BBC news in Israel